15mins to 30mins 

15mins to 25mins 

15mins to 45mins - more experienced 


tell about yourself - 2mins time

1. about you 
2. i have overall 3years in exp in IT industry  and i am currently working company as a software engineer.

what's your rolls and responsibilities - 2 to 5mins times , 3mins times (Azure cloud, Linux) + Onprem Linux

1. about your project and location , overall exp in project 
2. day to day activities 

* Azure Compute service - Azure VM 

1. Deploy vm from Azure market place - 
2. deploy vm from golden images - customized images self by azure infra 
3. programmatic way to deploy vm - (under development)

Regular Tasks:

1. Vm resize - upgrade and downgrade 
2. New disk creation and extension of disk
3. deletion of disks 
4. os level C drive space clear and page file activities
5. Troubleshooting of VM - high CPU and memory utilization 
	Vm crashed, VM blank screen issue, VM redeploy and Reapply 

* Networking concept

1. i have created vnet and subnet in our project 

2. vnet Peering worked & NSG and Inbound and outbound rules 
3. vm network related day to day activities

* Storages

1. you have created storage account 
2. created azure blob containers and file share

* Backup things and DR Related

commvault and azure backup

*patching
 
wsus Windows server Patching and Azure update management

* Monitoring
 
splunk and then Azure monitor service like metric, insights. (jira and Service ticking tool )

load balancer layer4  and app gateway layer 7 web https,http

interviwer questions sessions - 10mins time 
1. compute service
2. script basics
2. troubleshooting 
3. VPN concept from networking
4. what are the types of storage account
5. backup related - how to restore vm from backup , rentions timing 
6. Monitoring related .
7.Patching related


3. Troubleshooting of VM 

1. VM is hung state ?
p3 alerts

1. VM dashboard /overview - VM status - like running or failed or updating
2. if issue with VM agent - agent is not ready state !! - we hvae to take necessary approval from app owner and reboot. 90%
3. Boot diag - screen you have check the status of vm - whether is hung or anything is stuck in screen 
4. Resource health - outage from MS side or somebody or client might rebooted machines.
5. VM is in blank screen or blue screen erros - VM Redeploy and re -apply - when VM status in failed state 
6. due to high CPU or Memory utilization machine go hung state- 

80% p3 - SQL DB consuming more CPU 
90% - in the splunk can increate threshold vaule to till 90% 


